feature/struct dumping (#484)
software-mansion/protostar: website/docs/tutorials/07-testing/02-cheatcodes/reflect.md

# `reflect`
```python

> def reflect(self, ids: VmConsts) -> Reflector:
> 
> class Reflector:
>     def get(self)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
def reflect(self, ids: VmConsts) -> Reflector:
```

I think misleading type is worse than no type at all.

```
Loads specified Cairo object into Python type. ```get()``` can return:

- int (for felt)
- RelocatableValue (for pointer)

> - Cairo Struct (for more complex types)

Reviewer 2: > `RelocatableValue`
and
> `CairoStruct` (for struct)

Reviewer 2: Generally use "``" when citing code

You can use it to print cairo data and compare complex structures.

> 

Reviewer 2: Can we provide two subsections for 
- printing
- asserting

> ```cairo

Reviewer 2: I like a lot new set of examples

> ```cairo

Reviewer: what do you think about:
1. Removing `%lang starknet` and other boilerplate which, although, make the snippet executable, is not crucial in expressing the sense
2. Adding a `title="..."` to each snippet as a brief description of what we want to showcase
3. Remove `func test_*()` parts and take following form:
```cairo
struct SimpleStruct:
    member x: felt
end

local simple_struct: SimpleStruct = SimpleStruct(x=10)

%{
        simple_struct = reflect(ids).simple_struct.get()
        print(simple_struct)
        # output:
        # CairoStruct(
        #     x=10
        # )
        assert simple_struct.x == 10 # true
%}
```

?

The goal is to reduce noise in text.

Reviewer 2: I think lack of func test is confusing

Reviewer: 🤷🏻

Reviewer 2: 1. I am whatever, we just should be consistent
2. +1

Author: 🤷🏻

%lang starknet

struct SimpleStruct:
    member x: felt
end

@external
func test_reflect_simple():
    alloc_locals

    local simple_struct: SimpleStruct = SimpleStruct(x=10)

    %{
        simple_struct = reflect(ids).simple_struct.get()
        print(simple_struct)
        # output:
        # CairoStruct(
        #     x=10
        # )

>         assert simple_struct.x == 10 # true

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        assert simple_struct.x == 10
```

IMHO, no need for that `true` and if you want to show `false`, you can always `assert not (...)`

    %}

    return()
end
```

```cairo
%lang starknet

from starkware.cairo.common.registers import get_fp_and_pc

@external
func test_pointers():
    alloc_locals

    let (__fp__, _) = get_fp_and_pc()

    local pointee: felt = 13
    local ptr1: felt* = &pointee
    local ptr2: felt* = &pointee
    
    %{
        ptr1 = reflect(ids).ptr1.get()
        ptr2 = reflect(ids).ptr2.get()

>         print(type(ptr1)) # RelocatableValue

Reviewer 2: Can we provide output here to remain consistent? We can provide dummy pointer value

end

struct OuterStruct:
    member inner_struct: InnerStruct
end

@external
func test_nesting():
    alloc_locals
    local inner_struct: InnerStruct = InnerStruct(value=7)
    local outer_struct: OuterStruct = OuterStruct(inner_struct=inner_struct)

    %{
        outer_struct = reflect(ids).outer_struct.get()
        OuterStruct = CairoStruct #
        InnerStruct = CairoStruct # This way you can add aliases for readability

        # You can compare nested structs
        assert outer_struct == OuterStruct(
            inner_struct=InnerStruct(
                value=7
            )
        )
    %}
    return ()
end
```

```cairo
%lang starknet

struct TwoFieldStruct:
    member value1: felt
    member value2: felt
end

@external
func test_wildcards():
    alloc_locals
    local two_field_struct: TwoFieldStruct = TwoFieldStruct(value1=23, value2=17)
    
    %{
        two_field_struct = reflect(ids).two_field_struct.get()
        assert two_field_struct == CairoStruct(
            value1=23,
            value2=two_field_struct.value2
            # You can use struct members in comparison to make sure it evaluates to true
        )
    %}
    return ()
end
```

:::warning

> Unlike `ids`, `reflect` does not automatically dereference pointers. As of right now you have to dereference them in Cairo.

Reviewer 2: > You have to dereference them in Cairo.

I think "as of right now" means something different

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unlike `ids`, `reflect` does not automatically dereference pointers.
As of now, dereference them in Cairo first.
```

> :::

Reviewer 2: Please provide information that it doesn't work for lets

func test_pointers():
    alloc_locals

    let (__fp__, _) = get_fp_and_pc()

    local pointee: felt = 13
    local ptr1: felt* = &pointee
    local ptr2: felt* = &pointee
    
    %{
        ptr1 = reflect(ids).ptr1.get()
        ptr2 = reflect(ids).ptr2.get()

        print(ptr1) # output: 1:8
        print(type(ptr1)) # output: RelocatableValue
        assert ptr1 == ptr2  # Pointers are compared directly using their addresses
    %}
    return ()
end
```

```cairo title=Nested comparisons
%lang starknet

struct InnerStruct:
    member value: felt
end

struct OuterStruct:
    member inner_struct: InnerStruct
end

@external
func test_nesting():
    alloc_locals
    local inner_struct: InnerStruct = InnerStruct(value=7)
    local outer_struct: OuterStruct = OuterStruct(inner_struct=inner_struct)

    %{
        outer_struct = reflect(ids).outer_struct.get()
        OuterStruct = CairoStruct #
        InnerStruct = CairoStruct # This way you can add aliases for readability

        # You can compare nested structs
        assert outer_struct == OuterStruct(
            inner_struct=InnerStruct(
                value=7
            )
        )
    %}
    return ()
end
```

> ```cairo title=Wildcards

Reviewer 2: I would remove this section, i think it is confusing

# `reflect`
```python
def reflect(self, ids: VmConsts) -> Reflector:
Reflector.get() -> Union[CairoStruct, RelocatableValue, int]

> def CairoStruct(typename: str) -> Type # inherits from base CairoStruct

Reviewer 2: Please make it untyped for now, we will think about adding typing later.

```

> Lazily converts Cairo object into Python custom named `CairoStruct` (complex structure) or keeps it a simple type `RelocatableValue` (pointer) or `int` (felt). It can be used to easily print and compare complex structures.

Reviewer 2: Loads specified Cairo object into Python type. get() can return (describe types...)

Also prefer active over passive in docs:
>You can use it to print cairo data and compare complex structures.

```cairo title="./test/example_test.cairo"

> %lang starknet

Reviewer 2: I feel this example is a bit too complex for docs. Can we provide one simple example and then a complex one? Also please change variable names to more descriptive names than `a`, `b`, `c`
